.agent/skills/simplify/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: simplify
description: Strictly minimize the codebase by prioritizing total lines of code reduction above all else, including readability and performance.
---

# Simplify Skill (Extreme Mode)

This skill focuses on the absolute minimization of the Octomark codebase. **Total Lines of Code (LOC) reduction is the only metric of success.**

## Core Principles

1. **Absolute LOC Minimization**: Every byte and every newline must be justified. If logic can be compressed into fewer lines (even if it becomes "ugly" or "clever"), it must be.
2. **Readability is Secondary**: Do not sacrifice a line-saving optimization for the sake of readability. High cognitive load is acceptable if the file footprint is smaller.
3. **Complexity is Secondary**: Hard-to-follow logic that uses fewer lines is preferred over simple, verbose logic.
4. **No Performance-First Logic**: Strip all code that exists only for performance (SWAR, timers, debug stats). Use idiomatic, compact Zig.
5. **Strictly `std` Only**: Any custom utility that can be replaced by a `std` call (even a slightly slower or more complex one) must be deleted.
6. **No Private Abstractions**: Structs, enums, and helper functions are bloat. Flatten them, inline them, or remove them.
7. **Delete Everything Non-Essential**: If it isn't required to pass the core tests, it is gone. This includes options, complex error handling, and "just in case" state.
8. Do not remove Stats and Timer code.

## Tactics

- **The Big Inline**: Merge specialized functions into larger blocks to save headers, scopes, and call sites.
- **Compact Expressions**: Use `if` expressions, nested calls, and `std.mem` utilities to collapse multi-line logic into single lines.
- **Flatten Data structures**: Replace stacks, specialized arrays, or complex structs with simple buffers or primitive variables if it saves lines.
- **Minimalist IO**: Remove all "interface detection" or "buffered" abstractions. Use raw `anytype` for readers/writers.
- **Consolidate Error Handling**: Use `anyerror` or a single-member error set to remove verbose error definitions and propagation.

## Mandatory Reporting

For every simplification task, you **MUST** report:
- **Starting LOC**: [Count]
- **Final LOC**: [Count]
- **Net Reduction**: [Count]
- **Lines Removed**: [Description of specific sections purged]

Commit message:

feat: update simplify skill to prioritize hardware-aware LOC minimization for CPU branch prediction and instruction cache efficiency.

.agent/skills/simplify/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: simplify
description: Minimize codebase LOC while prioritizing flat, linear logic to favor CPU branch prediction and instruction cache efficiency.
---

# Simplify Skill (Hardware-Aware Extreme Mode)

This skill focuses on radical LOC reduction through "The Big Flattening." By removing abstractions, we simultaneously reduce the line count and make the code more predictable for the CPU's speculative execution.

## Core Principles

1. **Linear over Nested**: Favor linear, "naive" code paths. Shallow logic is easier for both the developer to count and the CPU to predict.
2. **Absolute LOC Minimization**: Use compact Zig idioms (inline if/switch) to keep the logic high-density.
3. **Reasonable Naming**: Use descriptive names (3+ chars) to maintain mental mapping while the structure collapses.
4. **No Private Abstractions**: Structs, enums, and helpers are overhead. Inline them to eliminate indirect calls (vtable/interface lookups) that trip up branch predictors.
5. **Standard Library First**: Use `std` primitives. They are well-tested and often more "naive" and direct than complex custom wrappers.
6. **Essential Logic Only**: If it’s not required for the core mission, delete it. Less code = fewer cache misses.
7. **Preserve Stats & Timers**: Maintain diagnostic code, but keep it inline and non-intrusive.

## Tactics

- **The Big Inline**: Pull function bodies into the main loop. This eliminates call/return overhead and keeps the instruction stream contiguous.
- **Branch Simplification**: Use simple `if/else` or `switch` instead of complex function pointers or deep inheritance. This maximizes speculative execution hits.
- **Data Flattening**: Replace complex state machines with simple primitive buffers.
- **Expression Collapsing**: Use `try`, `catch`, and `if` expressions to turn 5 lines of guard clauses into 1 line of dense logic.

## Mandatory Reporting

For every simplification task, you **MUST** report:

- **Starting LOC**: [Count]
- **Final LOC**: [Count]
- **Net Reduction**: [Count / Percentage]
- **Efficiency Gain**: [Briefly describe how the flat structure helps the CPU/Branch Predictor]
- **Lines Removed**: [Description of specific abstractions purged]
